## Classifying Human-Robot Interaction: An Updated Taxonomy

### Holly A. Yanco and Jill Drury

This paper discusses an updated taxonomy for human robot interaction, based on recent research and advances in the field.

Some of the related taxonomies are:

- Computer-Supported Cooperative Work
    - Time-Space Taxonomy
    - Collaborative Application Taxonomy
- Multi-Agent Robot Taxonomy

### Taxonomy Categories

1. Task Type - This details the type of task to be performed

2. Task Criticality - Task is critical if failuer affects human life. `CRITICALITY` = {_high_, _medium_, _low_}.

3. Robot Morphology - `ROBOT-MORPHOLOGY` = {_anthropomorphic_, _zoomorphic_, _functional_}

4. Ratio of People to Robots - `HUMAN-ROBOT-RATIO` = {_number_of_humans_ / _number_of_robots_}. Range for variable numbers.

5. Composition of Robot Teams - `ROBOT-TEAM-COMPOSITION` = {_homogeneous_, _heterogeneous_}

6. Level of Shared Interaction Among Teams - Communication between operators, robots, and humans and robots
    - One Human : One Robot
    - One Human : Robot Team
    - One Human : Multiple Robots
    - Human Team : One Robot
    - Multple Humans : One Robot
    - Human Team : Robot Team
    - Human Team : Multiple Robots
    - Multiple Humans : Robot Team

7. Interaction Roles - `INTERACTION-ROLE`
    - _supervisor_: Give commands and monitor.
    - _operator_: More interaction, teleoperate or change robot behavior.
    - _teammate_: Work with robot to achieve task.
    - _mechanic/programmer_: Physically change robot hardware or software.
    - _bystander_: Just have understanding of what the robot is doing so as to be in the same space.

8. Types of Human-Robot Physical Proximity - `PHYSICAL-PROXIMITY` = {_avoiding_, _passing_, _following_, _approaching_, _touching_, _none_}

9. Decision Support for Operators
    - `AVAILABLE-SENSORS`: List of sensing types available on robot platform.
    - `PROVIDED-SENSORS`: List of sensor information provided to the operator.
    - `SENSOR-FUSION`: List of functions, e.g. {{_sonar_, _ladar_} -> _map_}
    - `PRE-PROCESSING`: Amount of pre-processing of sensors for decision support, e.g. {_sonar_ -> _map_}, {_video_ -> _highlight red regions_}

10. Time/Space Taxonomy - `TIME` = {_synchronous_, _asynchronous_}, `SPACE` = {_collocated_, _non-collocated_}

11. Autonomy Level / Amount of Interaction - Continuum of values denoting the percentage of time spent by a robot doing its task vs the time spent by a human operator controlling the robot, e.g. Robonaut, a teleoperated robot developed by NASA, has `AUTONOMY=0%` and `INTERVENTION=100%`.
