## The Autonomous City Explorer (_ACE_) Project - Mobile Robot Navigation in Highly Populated Urban Environments

### Georgios Lidoris, Floria Rohrmuller, Dirk Wollherr, Martin Buss

This paper describes the Autonomous City Explorer or ACE, and its navigation subsytem in great detail. The objective of ACE is to develop a fully autonomous robot that is capable of navigating in a dynamic, unstructured environment without any prior map or GPS capabilities. ACE achieves this by using a range of sensors to sense its surrounding terrain as well as interact with people in its path to get directions to its goal.

ACE is based on a differential drive platform. Its specification is:
- A SICK LMS200 laser range finder for the horizontal scan plane.
- A SICK LMS400 laser range finder at a 45 degree angle for terrain traversability assessment.
- A touch screen and speakers to interact with humans.
- 5 cameras for gesture recognition.

ACE has 3 main subsystems
1. Processing Layer
2. Control Layer
3. Execution Layer

#### Processing Layer

This layer performs the high level operations such as SLAM, grid fusion and path planning.

1. SLAM - An implementation of particle filters is used for this with some minor adjustments.
2. Grid Fusion - In order to generate the 2.5D map for path planning, the occupancy grid maps of both the laser range finders is fused.
3. Path Planning - Voronoi graphs are used to generate the nodes along which the robot can plan its path. The use of the Extended Generalized Voronoi Graph generates a visibility graph with nodes, upon which A* search is performed to generate the shortest distance path which also has the maximum clearance from obstacles.

#### Control Layer

This layer helps choose, monitor and update the robot behaviour.

1. The robot has 4 types of behaviors - Explore, FollowPerson, GoInDirection, ReachGoal.
2. Based on triggers sent by various subsystems, the Behavior Selection subsystem uses a Finite State Machine to decide the behavior of the robot. Each subsystem is assigned a priority to help decide precedence.
3. The Behavior Control system ensures execution and failure handling of the active behavior. This system performs constraint checking based on various inputs, decides if a failure has occured and adjusts the goal accuracy so that the objective can be obtained.

#### Execution Layer

The Execution Layer is in charge of taking the input from the control layer and actually driving the robot. It has a Obstacle Avoidance module which helps it avoid dynamic obstacles in the path given to it by the Control Layer.

#### Experimental Results

The ACE robot successfully traversed a distance of 1.5 kms from TU Munich to the Marienplatz, using interactions from 38 passers-by and taking 5 hours. Occupancy grid maps and planned paths for various scenarios are illustrated. 