## What makes Paris look like Paris?

#### Carl Doersch, Saurabh Singh, Abhinav Gupta, Josef Sivic, and Alexei A. Efros. Siggraph 2012. 

The paper presents a technique to find visual elements in geo-tagged images, that are both geographically discriminative as well as recurring. The authors use Google Street View images since they satisfy all their requirements but are not biased towards landmarks (the Eiffel Tower occurs only once in the 1000 images of Paris in their dataset). Their algorithm randomly samples 25,000 high-contrast patches from a positive set (all images belonging to a particular city), model them as HOG+color patches and apply Nearest Neighbours on these patches to find the candidate visual elements that occur frequently and that can be discriminative. They filter out poor visual elements by calculating the proportion of nearest neighbours that are from the positive set and eliminating those below a certain threshold as well as those that have high similarity to other good patches. They then iteratively train a linear SVM for each visual element, dividing the training data into l (l=3) subsets and running the SVM on each unseen subset to find good patches that are then used for training, with geolocation as a weak constraint, a process termed iterative discriminative learning. The SVM is initialized using the initial patch and its nearest neighbors. They pick the SVMs that give the best firing accuracies and that reduces the number of visual elements to a few hundred. They provide tests to answer various questions about the discriminatory nature of the elements, and how they perform to recognize and classify new images. Finally they present applications to find geo-spatial distributions of elements, correspondence of elements across cities and geographically informed image retrieval.

Discussion:

1. Why is k set to 5? Isn’t that a very small number and prone to overfitting?

2. American cities have trouble with patches of cars. Wouldn’t an already established HOG descriptor of a car prove useful to eliminate such patches using a similarity measure such as SSD or Normalized Cross Correlation?

3. From afar, this method seems similar to boosting, instead they use smart classifiers in the form of SVMs. What are the salient distinctions of discriminatory learning? I don’t think I fully understand its benefits and power.