## Photo Clip Art. 

### Jean-Francois Lalonde, Derek Hoeim, Alexei A. Efros, Carsten Rother, John Winn and Antonio Criminisi. ACM Transactions on Graphics (SIGGRAPH 2007).

The paper proposes a system to allow image compositing with a key focus on "photo-realism". The authors use a data-driven approach to find objects from a image clip art library that best fits the pose and illumination of the target scene. The 2 main components of the paper are the library creation and the object matching and blending. The library creation involves using an available dataset of objects and their segmentations and calculating the camera pose for each image, using either 2 object instances or a pose prior distribution and 1 object instance (instances of an object class with known 3D height distributions). A global and local illumination context is also calculated to better match illumination in the target scene. For object matching, a weighted linear combination of Camera Orientation, Global Lighting, Local Context, Instance Resolution and Segmentation Quality is used. Methods are proposed for better segmenting the objects and for doing context aware blending to achieve the goal of photo realism.

Q: Is the step involving creation of subclasses really necesary? Despite there being high variability in the different instances of certain object classes, using the matching criteria (especially the orientation and local context) should help alleviate the need for finding subclasses within the object class, since our final goal is to provide a list of recommended objects that best fit the input scene.
