## Learning to predict where humans look. 

#### T. Judd, K. Ehinger, F. Durand, and A. Torralba. IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV), 2009. 

In examining humans fixations and saliency in images, the authors propose a learning based approach to compute a model of saliency. The main contributions are 1. a database of eye tracking data for 1003 natural images which forms the ground truth for saliency detection and 2. the formulation of a model which takes a bottom up and top down approach to construct. The creation of the human eye tracking dataset is given in good detail and is straightforward. The more interesting part is the design of the saliency model and the choice of features. The authors use low (steerable pyramid features, Torralba features, intensity, color, orientation, etc), mid (the location of the horizon calculated using gist descriptors) and high (features from object detector for cars, faces, people, etc) level features. This combined model outperforms models that use only a subset of the features in various tests. An example of using their model of saliency in a graphics application is provided.

Questions:
1. Did the authors consider using completely random scene images where there was no particular focus on any item in order to test the degree of the effect of the center bias?

2. There is no dimensionality reduction being done. Would dimensionality reduction help and how much, considering we are looking at a high dimension of features (especially if we consider more mid and high level features as object detectors get better)?

3. The human viewers were all allowed free gazing. What would be the effect if they were provided some initial direction on where to look and what to look for? Suppose as a third set, they were instructed to look for birds in an image, would the fixations still have been consistent for faces and people? How would major distractions (such as something unusual like a man in a gorilla suit) in an image affect the fixations and gazepaths? There are certain images on the internet that challenge human perception by pointing out unusual objects in the image that humans usually miss finding on their own.