## PatchMatch: A Randomized Correspondence Algorithm for Structural Image Editing. 

#### Connelly Barnes, Eli Shechtman, Adam Finkelstein, and Dan B Goldman. Siggraph 2009.

In this paper, the authors propose an efficient, randomized algorithm to find approximate nearest neighbor patches that match a given patch, with focus on speed so as to enable interactive structural image editing applications. This is done by defining a function called Nearest Neighbor Fields which encodes the offsets of the centers of the patches from the source image to the target image. The Nearest Neighbor Fields are calculated using a 2 step iterative process involving 1. propagation of good matches to the right and below (and to the top and left in reverse scanline), thus taking advantage of coherence of regions, and 2. a random search in a region of weighted radius around the patch to again find good matches since correct matches exist close to approximate matches with a high probability. They provide both theoretical and empirical analysis of the efficiency of their algorithm. Finally they define the various constraints needed to adapt their algorithm to each of the type of structural image editing applications as well as implementation details.

Discussion:

1. The authors don't define the number of images they apply the Nearest Neighbor on. The datasets they use are simply pairs. How can the k in kNN affect their results?

2. For inpainting, the authors say that the boundaries of the missing regions do not provide many or any constraints in most cases. How does this compare to Prof. Hays' work in data driven inpainting?