## Finding Tiny Faces

#### Peiyun Hu, Deva Ramanan. CVPR 2017.

#### Summary

In this paper, the authors train scale specific object detectors to find tiny faces in images. The contributions are three fold:

1. They train detectors at specific scales instead of a performing detection to arbitrary output sizes. In order to make inference efficient, they train all scale specific detectors with a single shared CNN, which they term as multi-task training (the task being individual scales, so multiple scales for the same CNN is thought of as a multi task problem). It is important to note that scale here refers to the size of the output detection (aka resolution) and not the input "scale". Thus, scale-specific detection would refer to outputs that predict at pre-defined scales/resolutions.
2. The authors leverage the dataset bias in the object sizes to train detectors for smaller and larger objects. This is accomplished by rescaling the image in such a way that faces are approximately the average size of objects in the dataset i.e. small faces are blown up and large faces are decimated.
3. To better identify small faces, the authors encode context by using hypercolumn features (features from different layers via skip connections). This helps encode contextual detail from lower layers of the network. 

The authors use the above ideas to build a detector that predicts a heatmap at every pixel (since they are only detecting faces) and then apply post processing to identify the best bounding boxes.

The authors demonstrate the effectiveness of their approach via multiple experiments, showing state of the art performance for small faces.

#### Strengths

1. The paper uses a simple training trick which identifies at what scale different sized objects are best detected and train for those scales specifically.
2. Use of a single shared CNN makes this method efficient.
3. The key insight this paper provides is that the pretrained network is biased towards objects of a particular size and training in a scale specific way is a good way of dealing with this.

#### Weaknesses

1. The paper uses some confusing terminology (such as multi-task models when they mean shared pretrained features) which makes this paper hard to follow at times.
2. There isn't a clear way to use the heatmap prediction design for multi-class object detection. It would seem one would have to train multiple detectors for each class.
